[AUDIO LOGO]
[THEME MUSIC]
>> EMERY SMITH: Today
on "Cosmic Disclosure,"
we are with Richard Doty, a
retired special agent who served
in the Air Force Office
of Special Investigations.
Richard was intimately
involved with UFO,
ET-related intelligence.
Today, we discuss a secret
program called the S-DART.
Richard, welcome to the program.
>> RICHARD DOTY: Thank you.
Good to be here.
>> EMERY: What is the S-DART?
What's that stand for?
>> DOTY: S-DART stands for
Special Downed Aircraft Recovery
Team.
>> EMERY: What can you
tell us about that?
>> DOTY: Well,
back in the 1940s,
late '40s, when
the first aircraft,
an extraterrestrial craft,
crashed in New Mexico,
the Air Force and Army realized
that they needed some kind
of special team to
recover these crafts.
So in 1953, the S-DART was
created by the Air Technical
Intelligence Center, which is
out of Wright-Patterson Air
Force Base in Ohio.
>> EMERY: And what was the
inspiration for this program
to begin with?
>> DOTY: Well, they needed a
specialized team to recover
these nonhuman,
intelligent crafts,
The regular crash recovery teams
were for conventional aircrafts
or military aircrafts during
that time period, the Army,
Air Force crafts.
And as our technology developed,
we realized at some point
that we needed advanced
recovery operations
to analyze and recover these
extraterrestrial crafts
from some other planet.
And that's why scientists
got together and realized,
OK, let's put together some
type of team specialists
that can recover these
nonhuman intelligence crafts.
>> EMERY: So what makes it
different than the DART?
>> DOTY: Well, the
difference in a DART,
the DART is just the team
that recovers crash or wrecked
military aircrafts.
The S put in front of
it, the special team,
signifies a specialized team
with specialists on board
that can go out and analyze it.
As our recovery process
progressed because there were
a lot of crashes in the late
'40s, '50s, and '60s and right
into the '70s and '80s and even
today that we realized that we
need specialists, because
there's a lot of things that
could happen at the
scene of a nonhuman,
intelligent craft crash.
We're dealing with a
foreign technology.
These crafts could be hazardous.
They could be dangerous, and
the occupants could be hostile.
>> EMERY: Absolutely.
Especially all the different
advancements in technology
every year, they probably have
to bring on new specialists
every few months, probably.
>> DOTY: Yeah, absolutely.
When we find a craft, of
course, we recover it.
We take it to Area 51 and/or
Tonopah Air Force Base,
and then we analyze it.
And of course, back in the late
'40s and '50s, our technology
hadn't advanced enough to
understand some technology
that's probably 1,000 or 10,000
years more advanced than we are.
And so we were lost.
And so we had to bring
in top scientists
to try to figure out, how
do we analyze these things?
Let's set up some kind of a
plan to analyze these things.
And that's what they did.
And as our technology
advanced, we
were more capable of
understanding their technology.
>> EMERY: Now, you mentioned
Tonopah, where a lot of this--
whatever is retrieved.
They take it to these
different places.
But where are these S-DART
teams actually stationed?
How many are there?
Where around the world are they?
>> DOTY: Well, in the
beginning, there were 11 teams.
And they were stationed
at Edwards Air Force Base,
Tonopah Test Range-- that's what
it was called before it became
Tonopah Air Force Base--
Cleveland Air Force Base, one
at Nellis, Langley, Virginia,
Langley Air Force Base,
oversees in Central Germany,
in Wiesbaden.
And in the Asian area,
Japan had a team.
Now, over the years,
they've managed
to move more of the
detachments from those--
like, for instance, at Tonopah,
it was at Detachment 2.
Now, they have one at
Hill Air Force Base, which
is controlled out of Tonopah.
So now there's a different team
and a different designation
for that team.
But now there's probably,
I think, 16 or 17
around the world, meaning
all over the world.
>> EMERY: Right.
No, I understand.
So who's chosen for these teams?
And how are they chosen?
>> DOTY: Well, in the beginning,
they used the conventional DART
recovery team assignments--
a pilot, somebody that knew
an aircraft, some systems
engineers, some airframe
mechanics and things like that,
fuel system mechanics.
And then when we realized
that these crafts weren't
like our crafts.
They weren't
conventional crafts.
They didn't have a gas tank.
It didn't have avionics
like we would have.
And so now these
people were lost.
These experts
couldn't understand
what they were dealing with.
So over the years, they've added
specialists, some of them out
of Los Alamos, some of them out
of Sandia National Laboratories,
some out of MIT.
They have some
specialized physicians
trained at the Armed Forces
Institute of Pathology--
>> EMERY:
Astrobiologist-type people.
>> DOTY: Yeah.
And they put those
guys on a team
because they have the experience
of all those years of dealing
with these NHIs.
And that's how the team
is organized today.
But back in the '40s, '50s,
and '60s, we were just learning
about the nonhuman
intelligence technology.
And so these people
had to be trained.
So after every craft
crash site, they
went ahead and gathered the
evidence in an after action
report and realized,
OK, we need to add
this specialist to the team.
Like, for instance, an
incident happened in Nevada,
in 1964, Red Ant, Nevada.
Miners watched a craft
come over them and crashed
So three miners got into a
vehicle and drove out there.
And when they got there, they
found this saucer-shaped objects
embedded into a mound of dirt.
And the bottom hatch opened.
So one of the miners went
up and into the craft.
And he immediately got
nauseated, extremely sick
to his stomach.
He got out.
The other miners took
him away from the craft,
and then he was all right.
So they immediately went back
and notified the authorities,
the county sheriff.
And eventually, the DART team
out of Tonopah Test Range
came out to recover the craft.
But that's just an example
of these miners had
no idea what this thing was.
They didn't know anything
about nonhuman intelligence.
These bodies laying
around were not human.
They recognized them
as being not human,
but they didn't know
where they came from.
And the inside of the craft
made this one miner nauseated.
So what does that mean?
That means there's
something inside of that,
whether it was fumes or
whether it was something
that they were breathing--
>> EMERY: Radiation,
electromagnetic fields.
>> DOTY: Any of those things,
and they just didn't know it.
Fortunately, he recovered.
But this is just an example that
told the DART team guys now.
They're going to wear
special suits, a respirator,
hazardous material
personal protective suits.
>> EMERY: Richard, now,
through my experience, too,
and through what I've
been through, I mean,
maybe tell the audience this is
happening a lot more often where
civilians are there before the
actual S-DART teams get there.
I've seen so many reports
where there's actually
a protocol when you get there,
if there are civilians there.
>> DOTY: Yeah, there
was a set protocol.
Every team has an
OSI agent on team,
who is in the Special Projects
Branch, who especially briefed
into these type of programs.
And he's a
counterintelligence officer.
And his job is to
disinform the people who
found if they were civilians.
A lot of time, they're
ex-military or police officers,
highway patrolman,
state troopers.
And so it's easier to
debrief them in a way
that they won't talk than
it is for some person that
has no connection whatsoever
with the government
or the military for
us to come in and try
to sway them away from reporting
what they actually saw.
So there's different
methods and different levels
of what we can do.
At the scene, we
try to disinform
them, deception operations.
If that doesn't work, then we
notify those guys at 7,602nd Air
Intel out of Fort Belvoir.
They're the real men in black.
>> EMERY: They are.
>> DOTY: And they can come
down and do things that we
wouldn't normally do.
We could probably do
some of those things,
but we let them do it because
they're more trained to do it.
And then we get
out of the picture
and let them do whatever
they need to do, maybe scare
them or threaten them or
whatever, then disinform them
of reporting what
they actually saw.
>> EMERY: I've even seen them
go as far as to even talk
to the media and change their
minds about what is actually
presented or written.
Have you heard this?
>> DOTY: Oh, absolutely.
Every media outlet in the
nation, at least when I was in,
had a source of information
we called them-- not a spy,
but we call them a
source of information--
that could manipulate the news
feed from a situation like that.
And we would
contact that person.
Like in Albuquerque, I
had somebody in control
of every single news media--
radio, television, local
television channel.
>> EMERY: "Albuquerque Journal."
>> DOTY: The Journal,
The Tribune at that time.
They don't have The
Tribune anymore.
And we would feed
them a story better
than what the civilian out
there was feeding them.
>> EMERY: It was more juicy.
>> DOTY: And plus, we had
little money to pay 'em.
>> EMERY: Absolutely.
>> DOTY: And that
can be used a lot.
And we can pay off the people.
If somebody saw something and we
had to quiet them or keep them
from telling the truth about
an extraterrestrial craft that
had crashed, or maybe one of our
top secret crafts that crashed,
we would do a lot
of different things.
And eventually,
we'd say, listen,
there's a little pocket of
money here that I can pay you,
and I'm going to
pay you in segments
to keep your mouth shut.
And we've done that
>> EMERY: Right.
Richard, have you
ever heard of a,
let's say, a crash site happen,
a real extraterrestrial vehicle
came down, and OSI came in, and
they told the people around them
that it wasn't an
extraterrestrial craft?
It was our experimental craft.
They were downplaying it.
>> DOTY: Absolutely.
>> EMERY: So that happens a lot?
>> DOTY: Numerous times.
Numerous times.
In fact, what Paul Bennewitz was
saying in a Paul Bennewitz case
back in the early '80s, we kind
of played that disinformation
campaign against him.
And so there's--
>> EMERY: I read that.
>> DOTY: --many other cases that
we would do something like that.
>> EMERY: Is there some sort of
narrative that would come out
that we would recognize
today in the media?
>> DOTY: Yes, a Tic Tac.
>> EMERY: The Tic
Tac, of course.
>> DOTY: Or the shootdown of
those objects over Alaska,
the Yukon in Canada, or Lake
Huron in the Great Lakes area.
That's a typical.
That would be something typical
that immediately the government
got a hold of and started
misfeeding the public of what
actually happened.
And the Tic Tac is
absolutely a perfect case
because when that happened, you
look at all the different people
that were involved
in that, the pilots,
the people in the
combat alert center,
Kevin Day, many other
people who I've spoken with.
There's scenarios that
they knew something
because when a helicopter
lands, a black helicopter
lands on a carrier with
civilians getting out,
and they're saying they're OSI.
Kevin Day said, they were
all OSI Air Force people.
He said, I don't know what
Air Force people do on a Navy,
craft because we have
the Office of Naval
Intelligence or the Naval
Criminal Investigation Service,
not the OSI.
But OSI went in and
got all the tapes.
Well, I can understand
that because the OSI
is aligned and does all the work
for the Defense Intelligence
Agency.
And those tapes, radar
tapes, the tracking tapes
would then belong to the
Defense Intelligence Agency, not
the Navy.
So that's why the Air
Force went in there,
because the Air Force does all
the dirty work for the DIA.
And that's why they picked
them up and took them back to--
And we know now that
some of those OSI agents
were out of Hickam Air
Force Base in Hawaii.
I mean, that came
out later In 2010.
And one of the OSI
agents, although he
didn't tell the whole
story, he admits
that he was one of them that was
transported from one location
to another on that ship to
pick up those radar tapes.
>> EMERY: Just for those tapes.
Are those the originals?
Or does a satellite
also record that?
>> DOTY: You know,
that's a good question.
>> EMERY: I always wondered.
>> DOTY: Yeah, I'm not sure.
I'm sure the satellite
probably did because every--
and I don't know how
classified that would be.
But every time a carrier group--
and I'm not Navy.
But a carrier group
is an aircraft carrier
with a number of
ships and submarines.
Every time they go out, there's
a satellite tracking them.
So I'm not sure how
that would work.
But I'm sure if they had
satellite tapes of that,
they would be in hands of the
Defense Intelligence Agency now.
>> EMERY: So,
Richard, the Tic Tac--
let's just get to
the bottom of this--
was that extraterrestrial craft?
Was it reverse-engineered-craft?
>> DOTY: Well, to listen to
the pilots that were in the air
encountering these objects--
and these pilots are
professional Navy pilots,
went through years of training
to be in that cockpit,
flying that advanced aircraft.
To listen to them
explain exactly what
they saw dictated that
it wasn't one of ours.
It defied gravity.
It defied any type of avionics
or aerodynamics that we had.
And of course, these
guys hadn't been--
and girl.
There was one female.
They hadn't been trained--
>> EMERY: Or debriefed.
>> DOTY: --or debriefed in
anything extraterrestrial,
and they admitted that.
But afterwards, they were.
That's amazing that after
they saw something-- now,
if this was one of ours,
something advanced,
maybe a Bigelow-created object--
>> EMERY: Raytheon-Bigelow
thing, yeah.
>> DOTY: --why would they then
be debriefed later and then
briefed on nonhuman
intelligence crafts?
Why would they do that?
Well, the Navy did that.
And why would they do that?
>> EMERY: To
discombobulate them, yeah.
>> DOTY: That means that they
could have encountered something
like this in the future.
Then they would know it was--
now, the only problem
with that story
is that before the alert
aircrafts on that ship, the two
F-18s, before this exercise,
every carrier group,
as I was explained
by one of the pilots,
had two alert aircrafts 24
hours a day, 365 days a year
with weapons on board, AMRAAM
or Sidewinder missiles.
So if anything comes within the
area of the aircraft carrier,
those things would
launch and shoot it down.
Well, on that day, they
took all the weapons off.
So those two alert aircrafts did
not have any weapons systems on.
Now, if we already knew that
something was going to happen--
>> EMERY: Someone knew.
>> DOTY: --they don't want
us to shoot down something.
Now, you can look
at it two ways.
You can look at it, number
one, that was something that we
were testing against the fleet.
Or number two, we knew
that these things,
we couldn't shoot down.
And they had some kind
of defensive mechanism
that could harm the fleet.
So they didn't want an armed
aircraft up there trying
to shoot down something
that could harm the fleet.
And there's a admiral
who has come forth.
That's his story,
that he believes
that these were nonhuman
intelligence crafts,
and that they had a mechanism, a
defense mechanism on board that
could harm our
aircrafts and the fleet.
And they didn't want them
to do that, obviously.
And so they didn't arm
the alert aircrafts.
The alert aircrafts just
went up and flew around
and spotted it and photographed
them and the gun cameras,
but they couldn't shoot it down.
And that's probably why.
>> EMERY: Was the misinformation
team saying that they were
an actual UFO because they
were trying to protect
our reverse-engineered vehicles?
>> DOTY: Yeah,
that's a good point.
I think that that
could very well be.
But the problem there
is there has not
been any information
leaked out after that
to indicate that those
things, those Tic Tacs
were, in fact, ours,
our technology.
In fact, we have scientists that
spoke at UFO conventions 5 and 6
and 7 years later who had
worked in reverse engineering,
saying they aren't anything that
we have ever seen at Papoose S2
or at Tonopah or at Area 51.
So he doubts that they
were, in fact, ours.
But that's a good point.
You could do that in
a deception operation.
You could confuse the public
by putting both stories out,
totally confusing the public,
and leaking different stories,
which I have done in the past
in disinformation or deception
operations to really
confuse the public.
So the public, if
they get so confused,
they just let that
story aside and believe
whatever they want to believe.
But to try to convince
one way or the other,
it's difficult if
the information has
been out there for a long time.
>> EMERY: But isn't it
possible that Bigelow Aerospace
or Raytheon could have
craft that, of course,
the military would
not know about?
>> DOTY: This is 2004.
And of course, the
Roosevelt incident
happened some time later.
And so eventually, during
now, I mean, years later,
we could very well
have something
that I don't know about whether
we had it in that time frame.
There are people saying, both
sides of it, yes, we did.
And no, we--
>> EMERY: It can go
many directions, right?
>> DOTY: Yes.
>> EMERY: Which makes it
very confusing for everyone.
>> DOTY: Exactly.
And that's what the government
wants, to confuse the public.
That's disinformation.
>> EMERY: Well, that brings
us to the next question,
is basically, why are
these nonterrestrial crafts
or let's just say these nonhuman
terrestrial crafts crashing
on Earth?
>> DOTY: Well, that's
a good question.
There's a lot of different
opinions by scientists
and aeronautical engineers
of why they crash.
And one of the theories is that
when an extraterrestrial craft
flies from wherever they're
coming from into our atmosphere,
there's things in
our atmosphere,
such as the Van Allen belt,
and our atmosphere that
contains things that they
don't have on their planet.
And when they come in, it
affects their control systems,
and they realize now
they're in trouble.
They either try to do a control
crash or a control landing,
or their mechanisms for flight
just becomes inoperative,
and then they crash.
And that's what their theory is.
But again, we're
dealing with technology
that's more advanced
than we are,
coming from a different planet
that may be light years away
from us.
And we don't understand
their technology.
And so it's really difficult
for our scientists.
And they do analyze it.
They try to at the scene.
But one of the things that
works against us is, number one,
we don't have a voice
recorder that we can
bring out and look at the data.
We don't have equipment that can
scan their avionics equipment.
And in some cases, we can't even
find their avionics equipment.
We don't even know
what it's made of.
And so that's the
difficulties we have.
That's the mountain that we have
to climb to try to figure out
how these things crash.
>> EMERY: Right.
Well, I have a personal question
here since I live in Las Vegas.
And down the road a
while back, a craft
crashed in the backyard of
a regular civilian home,
neighborhood.
And I read a classified report--
And I don't know if
it's real or not--
that said, it wasn't
a crash landing.
They were having
mechanical problems.
And it was like a
controlled crash landing.
Are you allowed to talk
about that, first of all?
Because I know you
did a big thing.
>> DOTY: Yeah, we did
a major investigation.
Our group, the
advanced working group,
did a major
investigation on that.
We had 11 people, all retired
federal agents or intelligence
officers out there for
weeks and weeks at a time,
interviewing the family
members in Spanish.
We had Spanish-speaking
investigators.
And we came to the
conclusion, looking
at some of the film
that hasn't been
released that they won't
release now, but we did see it--
>> EMERY: That's a good sign.
>> DOTY: --that these
things were not human.
They were definitely not--
>> EMERY: Definitely not human.
>> DOTY: --human.
The pictures that we saw--
and I wasn't out there, but our
other people were out there--
looked like extraterrestrials,
the typical extraterrestrials
that were nonhuman.
But they were really tall.
They were--
>> EMERY: Very tall, yes.
I saw the pictures.
>> DOTY: --yeah,
8 to 10 feet tall.
And another thing that
has never been released
is the property
directly to the east
had a camera in their backyard.
And one of the creatures
came over his fence,
hit a swimming
pool, and picked up
water out of that swim or
did something with water.
You can't really see what it was
doing, but it was kneeling down.
It wasn't drinking
the water, but it
looked like they
were putting water
in some kind of a container.
>> EMERY: I saw it.
>> DOTY: But those things,
they were not human.
The way he jumped,
the way it jumped up
based on that lamp post
that was in the back, which
was 6 foot tall, it was at
least 2 feet taller than that.
So you're talking at
8 to 10 feet tall.
>> EMERY: And the
fence was 6 feet.
>> DOTY: Right.
Jumped over and went back.
And then it did something
to either repair itself
and then took off and
landed over in Lake Mead.
A large military
presence was over there.
We tracked it.
We talked to people
camping out there.
They see these military
convoys pulling up.
What are they doing out there?
And then the story drops.
Why did the United
States government
obtain a FISA warrant to
search their property?
Why did they surreptitiously
say, go in the government
and put cameras up in there?
Well, this is after the fact.
And why did a man
who was supposed
to be a high voltage electrician
who was driving around
that night, and people saw him--
in fact, other doorbell cameras
seeing this truck with
a company name on it.
I think it was
Spurlock Corporation.
And there's no such company.
This guy that had gone to a
number of different houses,
he was up on a telephone pole.
And this is before
the incident happened.
And now they can't find the guy.
They can't find the company.
It's not licensed
anywhere in Nevada.
Some people say they've
seen that truck going out
towards Rachel,
probably the Area 51.
>> EMERY: I heard this, yes.
>> DOTY: And so now you
put all this together,
and this is a major cover-up by
the United States government.
Something happened
involving extraterrestrials.
Now, there's two
different stories here.
One story is that this
thing, these entities
lived out in Area 51.
They lived out there.
And they were going to
demonstrate this craft to us,
but then something happened.
And they had to land and
repair it in some way.
>> EMERY: That's
what I heard, yes.
>> DOTY: And then it took
back off and another problem.
And the second story is that--
it was something that
came in because there's
a radar site over near
Baker, California, FAA site
that tracked that thing all the
way over to North Las Vegas.
So what do you want to believe?
Now, that might
have been a story
generated by the United States
government as disinformation.
But that's the
confusing part of this.
And now the people are gone.
They don't live there anymore.
>> EMERY: Get them out of
here and change the names.
>> DOTY: Relocate.
>> EMERY: They relocated them.
What's the S-DART
protocol for that?
What would it be today if you
can go over that really quick?
>> DOTY: It would have been
for the team out of Nellis,
which was the closest team,
obviously just a few miles away,
actually, to respond and connect
with the North Las Vegas Police
or Vegas Metropolitan Police
Department and coordinate
a recovery operation.
But the problem there
is that although there
were OSI agents that
were at that scene
45 minutes after those
two officers arrived--
there was two OSI agents.
And we know who their names are.
And we know they were stationed
out of Nellis Air Force base.
They responded there,
again, 45 minutes after.
It was like 1 o'clock
in the morning.
>> EMERY: That's fast.
>> DOTY: Yeah, exactly.
So how did they know?
Well, as we understand,
you're going back
to the chain of events.
The dispatcher, somebody
in the dispatch office,
the central dispatch
for Las Vegas,
told one of the dispatchers
call Nellis Air Force Base
and briefed them on this to see
if they tracked it or something.
So she did.
She called Nellis command post.
And then 45 minutes later,
two OSI agents were on scene.
>> EMERY: Incredible.
>> DOTY: So if this wasn't
anything, this wasn't nothing,
this was just a hoax, OSI
agents wouldn't respond.
They were both out of the
Special Projects Branch.
And why would they respond out
of something that was a hoax?
They wouldn't.
They would respond when
something was real.
And they'd notified the S-DART.
But unfortunately, before
the S-DART ever got there,
this thing, the craft
had taken back off
and flew over towards Lake Mead.
Now, as I understand,
the S-DART team
did go over there because it
was spotted over there on radar,
but it didn't crash over there.
It landed on some little island
out in the middle of Lake Mead
to do something,
like maybe get water,
or we don't know,
and took back off.
And it was tracked on radar all
the way past Houston, Texas.
So it was flying in the
southeast for some reason
at great altitudes.
And another thing that
the FAA at McCarran,
or Harry Reid Airport
now it's called,
they tracked something that came
from 65,000 feet down to 2,000
feet in a matter
of a few seconds.
Now, we don't have
anything like that.
We have no aircrafts
that I know of--
and pilots have seen
this information.
We showed them.
Can you descend in 3 seconds?
No, you can't do it.
It'll kill us.
So how did they do that?
And was it the same craft?
That's the problem.
We don't know if that was the
same craft or the craft that
landed in that back yard
was a different craft.
But there was something
that descended
that quick at the
same time period,
and that was tracked on radar.
>> EMERY: I was there
the following day,
and it was swamped.
And they were already
installing cameras
down that road and, in the
back yard, military cameras.
Rick, we talked about
these 8 to 10-feet beings.
Now, I read some
things in the report.
What's your take on the craft
size that was in the backyard?
>> DOTY: This is
about 20 feet high.
So it was twice the size,
but it wasn't very big.
>> EMERY: It was very slender.
>> DOTY: Very slender.
It was a two-occupant craft.
And there were two occupants
in it that came out.
And one was filmed
from a distance,
but the other one had
jumped over that fence.
You could see it plain
as day on that camera.
And so they weren't
large beings.
They were skinny but tall.
>> EMERY: Very tall, yeah.
>> DOTY: And the
craft was the same.
So it was probably just two.
It was maybe a scout ship or
some kind of an observation
or reconnaissance ship.
>> EMERY: And we have to
understand the different types
of physics.
The craft size doesn't matter.
You've seen this
before, where you
have beings that are very large,
and the craft is really small.
And it doesn't make
sense, but it makes sense
because it changes
your atomic structure.
>> DOTY: Exactly.
And there's a classical
example of this
the doctor put up, who I used to
work for, wrote about the fact
that the exterior of the
craft doesn't mean anything.
If you look at the
outside of the craft,
it could be 10 feet wide.
But you look inside, the
size of a football field.
How can that happen?
He explains in details
how that can occur.
And with our physics,
that could happen.
>> EMERY: It's amazing, yes.
Were these teams ever
met with resistance
from beings from a downed craft?
>> DOTY: Yes, I know one
instance in Box Elder,
South Dakota, which is real
close to Ellsworth Air Force
Base.
A craft crashed in the '60s.
And as soon as it crashed,
it was tracked on radar.
Air Force, back then,
they were called
Air Police, responded to the
scene, set up a perimeter.
An on-scene commander came
out in the rank of a colonel.
And they called the DART team.
And the closest DART team
was at Tonopah at that time.
But they took them
some time to get there.
There was one live
extraterrestrial that
was detained by the Air Police.
They put him in a vehicle
because they didn't--
in the back of a police vehicle.
And he disappeared or escaped.
>> EMERY: Dematerialized, yeah.
>> DOTY: And so they did
a massive search for it
and eventually found it.
It was close to the air base.
Actually, this being had
gone towards the air base
rather than away
from the air base.
And where they
found this being--
it is really remarkable--
>> EMERY: And this is amazing.
>> DOTY: --is inside the
nuclear weapons storage area.
Now, it seems like
this thing was maybe
attracted towards radiation or
nuclear material or something.
And so they found it right
next to the perimeter.
I don't think it actually had
gotten inside what the Air
Force would call a WSA, a
Weapon Storage Area, which is
a nuclear weapon storage area.
But it was close to the
fence, and perimeter guards
had tracked it.
And they put a net over it.
And eventually, when
the DART team got there,
they had the means to put it
in some kind of a vehicle,
and they transported
it to Area 51.
But that was one of the
ones that we had captured,
and that was in the '60s.
And there was some
form of resistance
between the extraterrestrial
and our military force.
>> EMERY: And for the
audience, let them know
that's an incredible distance
from the crash site to the fence
line.
>> DOTY: Yes.
Yes, it was.
And they got there.
It got there.
But it was as if it was--
maybe it knew that there
was some radiation.
And I don't know why they
always go towards radiation.
There's so many cases out
there where these things
appear inside or near nuclear
weapons or nuclear weapons
storage areas.
>> EMERY: Could you describe
what kind of being that was?
>> DOTY: That was Hepaloid I
believe that was a Hepaloid.
It was almost looking
like a human, but it had--
>> EMERY: Smaller?
>> DOTY: --distorted features.
No, I think it was 5'7", 5'8"
feet and distorted features.
And in the report, it just
said distorted features.
But it doesn't go into
details of exactly
because everything is
compartmented remember?
They put the
generalized description.
But anything else,
you'd have to go
to another annex of the report
to look and see exactly what--
>> EMERY: Distorted features
means what for the audience?
>> DOTY: I would say
distorted facial features,
might have had some kind
of headwear on, helmet,
maybe something on their arms.
Maybe they were wearing
a suit that would
distort their regular features.
You couldn't see their
features because they
had something on the outside.
>> EMERY: Once we
have the craft,
what kind of test are performed?
And what do we learn
from that, Rick?
>> DOTY: We learn by experience.
So the more crashes that we
investigate, the more we learn.
But the idiosyncrasy there is
they're not all the same crafts,
all the same technologies.
We learned that
in the early days.
I read a long document
back in the '80s about how
our technology advanced
towards understanding these
extraterrestrial crafts.
The first one we encountered,
at least I was briefed in,
was 1947 at Corona, New Mexico.
That's the Eben craft.
That's a craft that we studied
for all those different years,
and we knew a lot about it.
And we had one live
extraterrestrial in captivity
from '47 to '52.
He gave us information about
how the craft operated,
communications,
the power system.
But the 1953 Kingman craft crash
was a different type of craft.
We've never seen
one of those before.
Remember, in '49, we found
another Eben craft, same craft.
So that made us think that
they're all the same. in '53,
we found it's different.
So we, over the years,
developed different types
of tests, examination
criteria to try to determine,
number one, which species was
flying it, where they came from.
And over the years,
I think they've
developed advanced systems
and test systems to determine
the creature which
species they were
and what technology there was.
>> EMERY: Well, what are
the origins of these craft
and the beings?
Do you know anything about that?
>> DOTY: Well, they're
coming from all over.
There's the Eben craft.
They have the Quantaloids, the
Trantaloids, the Hepaloids.
At least back then,
there were only five.
I understand now there's--
well, seven.
But now I understand there's 21.
And I think maybe they,
the extraterrestrials,
had announced to the
universe that we're
a strange planet out here.
And now they're all coming
to look at us, I think.
>> EMERY: Is this
program still ongoing?
>> DOTY: The program
is still ongoing.
>> EMERY: How does this factor
into the disclosure narrative
today?
>> DOTY: Well, it's leaked out.
And there's a lot of
whistleblowers out there
that have had
hands-on experience.
There's a number of
whistleblowers right now
that have already been
briefed by the DOD IG and RO
telling their
stories about having
hands-on experience on
a crash recovery team
in different parts
of the United States.
And they're here to tell us
about what they experienced.
And some of their experiences
are literally out of this world.
But that's what
we have right now.
And those
whistleblowers, they need
to speak to the American public
to explain exactly what they did
and what they saw and what
they experienced when they were
on these crash recovery teams.
>> EMERY: Absolutely.
I agree.
Richard, it's been a
fascinating interview.
Thanks for being on the show.
>> DOTY: Thank you, Emery.
>> EMERY: I'm Emery Smith, and
this is "Cosmic Disclosure."
Until next time.
[MUSIC PLAYING]